how are you i am 20 years old 20.
and are you working or studying i am a
full-time
student uh at the moment as well as
uh working part-time as a hostess at a
restaurant that's right you enjoy that
i do enjoy um you know i meet
all kinds of different people and they
really think it teaches you
how to handle yourself what made you
want to come to a poem video
uh you know it's always been like a
secret fantasy of mine so
why not now right what's the way
um you know the world is my oyster
[Music]
at some point following the shooting of
the video jane doe 22
sought treatment for anxiety and
depression she cannot recall the name of
the psychologist
the reason she saw a psychologist stem
from the emotional distress she
experienced in shooting the video
she's lost relationships has a son whose
father
is unknown feels hopeless about her
future
because people that she cares about have
called her vile names
such as horror and [ __ ] telling her that
she will never be anything more than
that
she feels that this was very damaging to
her self-esteem
causing her to go into depression and
have anxiety attacks
she then reflects that if she hadn't
made this one decision
quote she thinks she would still be in
school
maybe not a single parent and would be
on a whole different path in life
she wouldn't be on the career path that
she's currently on
in some and substance she feels the
pornographic video shoots
have ruined her life close quote
this is a remarkable contrast to the
eager
optimistic tone that we find in the
interview at the start of that self-same
pornographic video you know i've always
had like a
weird secret fantasy about it and never
really thought about actually doing it
until i
questioned myself why not you know so
it's an opportunity for everything
so do you have a boyfriend i do not
how many guys have you been with i would
say about ten
about ten that's a good round number
yeah and did you tell anyone you're
coming to this video today
uh yeah i told uh two of my girlfriends
what'd they have to say about it
uh they laughed and they said go for it
and
to have fun enjoy myself i can
sympathize and i do sympathize with her
sentiment
that it was just this one bad decision
that ruined her life however each of us
in our own lives has occasion to reflect
on one momentous bad decision and most
of the time
with further analysis we realized that
there were many facts
and many factors perhaps even many bad
decisions
that we made ourselves that led to the
terrible outcome
that led to the scenario we wish in our
mind's eye we could have avoided
if only that one decision had been made
differently jane doe attended college at
indiana university south bend but
dropped out
before learning her videos were posted
online
at first when i read this i assumed this
meant that she had dropped out of
college
before she filmed the pornographic video
at all
but in fact the timeline is quite
peculiar
she lost faith in college and dropped
out of college
during the period in time in which she
had filmed the video
but the video had not yet been posted on
the internet with the inevitable
consequences of everyone in her personal
life finding out that she was
so to speak a porn star whatever the
facts and factors
leading up to that decision to drop out
of school might have been
it's remarkable to know that the
consequences of filming this porn video
could not have been one of them likewise
it's self-evident
that at the time she filmed this video
she
already had elective surgery to enlarge
her breasts
she had breast augmentation surgery
in plain english a boob job so that
decision was made
long before she got involved in
stripping or
appearing in porn and as she says on
camera repeatedly
this is something she'd fantasized about
this is something she thought about this
is something she really wanted to do
long before she decided to do it
returning to the text of the verdict
quote currently jane doe is employed at
a place called
blank where she has worked as an
entertainer
i.e as a stripper or exotic dancer
i am here censoring the judgment it
states the name of the establishment
where she
is employed since september 2018
previously she had worked as an
entertainer at an establishment called
blank
commencing in september 2017 she left
when it closed in 2018 before working at
blank
the name of a strip club that i'm
deleting here she worked at
blank and this seems to have been either
a hardware store
or a component shop or a place handling
parts for
cars and trucks she worked there as a
customer service representative her
duties involved order entry
taking phone calls and parts knowledge
she
ceased working there in roughly
september of 2016.
jane doe quit this job because she was
in a bad place
she was distressed with people knowing
about the videos so there certainly is
a tragic downward spiral here but it's
one that began before
she filmed the pornographic video it
seems quite likely that at the time she
decided to have breast augmentation
surgery
many of these thoughts were already in
her head that she could have a career as
a porn star that she could have a career
as a stripper
and she pursued both of these things and
of course
it's not easy to draw a simple cause and
effect relationship
between the fact that she starred in
this particular movie
and that she finds herself now a single
parent
that she has a son with as of underlined
here in red
no known father so this
isn't just the tale of one bad decision
that ruined her life
although i certainly sympathize that
when she looks back on her life
it might really seem that way that might
be the way it feels
to her today so you're about to do your
first adult video
and how old are you i'm 20. how many
guys have you
been with before um i think
six six six or seven do you think
yeah somewhere somewhere in the six or
seven
i don't know it's a good number that's
it
and how often do you have one that
stands not often
when i'm single basically do you ever
cheat on your boyfriend
no no
person woman man camera tv
on some deep unexamined level
i think that many women in the audience
may feel unsympathetic towards the
victims in this case
on the grounds that they imagine
correctly
this would never happen to me
that sentiment however is utterly
irrelevant
to politics the fact that you might
never be a victim of racism
doesn't mean that racism doesn't matter
the fact that you
might be too intelligent to ever be
duped
by a cult to be drawn into
exploit a different religious group that
takes all your money away from you that
doesn't mean you shouldn't have
legislation to protect people
who are foolish enough to become victims
of a cult
the fact that you personally may even
have moral characteristics
that make you immune to the possibility
of losing all your money through
gambling
the fact that you may be immune to drug
addiction because you're just not the
sort of person who would ever be
successful
that is irrelevant to the political
consideration
of any of these social problems and what
their solutions might be
we have to write laws that protect the
weakest among us the most foolish among
us the most gullible among us
and yes although it's uncomfortable to
talk about many of us
are simply not attractive enough to ever
be targeted by the sex industry to ever
end up
as sex workers or exploited in this way
and that too
is irrelevant to moral consideration
here what if religious freedom
entails the perpetual victimization of
people who are too
stupid or too naive to doubt
and scrutinize religion does that mean
that we should be indifferent to those
people however stupid they must be
to be willing to pay someone money to
say a prayer or perform a ritual
to cure their illness should we just say
well let the buyer beware
if you're not shrewd enough or you're
not smart enough to figure out that
religion is a scam
then you deserve to be scammed and this
society and this legal system doesn't
owe you anything
to protect you and there are no laws to
protect me why should i sympathize
with those who are shall we say lacking
this immunity even if it is just an
immunity
rooted in cynicism if freedom of
religion
means that you can promise someone a
magical ritual
that will cure their cancer and you can
charge any price
in that context is freedom of religion
a good thing what if sexual freedom
means the perpetual victimization of
people
who are too stupid or too naive
to doubt and scrutinize these offers
of fame these offers of money these
offers of attention
and let's not be jejune the sex itself
is part of what draws these women in
many
many many of them say on camera that one
of the reasons they're doing this
is for the sexual experience as such
you may feel secure that you are not one
of those people who is so stupid
or so naive to be drawn in by what's on
offer
here and to ignore what it's going to
cost you that you wouldn't be capable of
ignoring the terrible long-term
consequences
that it would have in your life but some
people
are some people are so stupid
some people are so naive and in
all of these cases whether it be freedom
of religion
or the freedom to gamble or the freedom
to exploit your own sexuality
we have to question at what point does
this freedom
become a danger to those who are
susceptible and thus when you scale it
up
at what point does it become a problem
for a society as a whole
to step in and solve do you have a
boyfriend
yeah does he know you're here today no
no
what does he think you are he thinks i'm
either at work
or at home or with my friend but my
friends don't know why i'm here
so you kind of just told them all a lie
i just didn't ask if they didn't ask and
you don't answer it's not a lie
true so what do you think you'd say if
you knew you were here
uh are you [ __ ] kidding me
what would you want to say or um you'd
be pretty mad he'd be really bad
[Music]
when she learned that the video was
online from her boyfriend at the time
jane doe 2 was scared and anxious
soon thereafter she learned that
everyone at her job knew about the video
and people were gossiping so she stopped
going to work
without giving notice many people from
her high school
who learned about the video called her
derogatory names
and she lost friends as a result her
family found out about the video
and even they have lost friends as a
result
jane doe attempted to change her
appearance because she was afraid of
going out in public
she testified that she isolated herself
and avoided all interactions
she has experienced severe anxiety and
panic attacks which still occur today
jane doe testified definitively that she
would not
have filmed the videos if she had known
that the defendants owned and operated a
website
and that the video would be public
jonathan told jane doe 2
the video would be distributed on dvds
overseas he never mentioned online
distribution
she was told the video was for a
quote-unquote private buyer
she spoke to one of the references to
assured her quote i didn't have to worry
about it in terms of my concern
of where the videos would go and who
would see it
and my privacy close quote do you ever
cheat on your boyfriend
no no
does he know you're here today no no
what does he think you are
he thinks i'm either at work or at home
or with my friend
what do you think you'd say if you knew
you were here uh
are you [ __ ] kidding me
what would you want to say it or um
you'd be pretty mad
he'd be really bad this is the moral
tension
that i think most viewers in the
audience feel
in looking back and evaluating this case
and then looking to the future
the way in which the internet is leading
millions and millions of people
to commodify their sexuality these women
in this particular court case plead
that they were unaware of the
consequences of their actions
but when you just consider the position
her boyfriend
was left in when you consider the
position her parents were left and when
considered the position her employers
and
even her school teachers were left in
the attitude
implicitly of the women pleading their
case would seem to be this
they have the right to prostitute
themselves
they have the right to appear in
pornography and if all of these other
people
can't handle it then that's their
problem did you tell anybody that you're
gonna do this
no not a single soul in the world knows
huh
wow so how do you think um your friends
and family would react if they knew
oh they would not be happy no no
are you in a relationship right now i am
you are
so you would hear her how would they
react
yeah he would not be very happy but
he's a little bit that southern
conservative
right so yeah you're a little you're
pretty nervous to come here
and uh some [ __ ] almost tried to talk
you out of coming
isn't that true he still thinks i'm not
here so he doesn't have a clue
no one has a clown no one's gonna find
out
the attitude implicitly of the women
pleading their case
would seem to be this they have the
right to prostitute themselves
they have the right to appear in
pornography and if all these other
people
can't handle it then that's their
problem if their boyfriend can't handle
it then that's their problem and if
society as a whole
can't handle it then that's society's
problem they
ought to be able to do this with
impunity
they ought to be able to have all the
advantages of exploiting their beauty
in order to achieve both fame and money
without the disadvantages that side of
the moral equation
i think makes everyone in the audience
feel uncomfortable
to think about whether we're looking
back at the past or looking to the
future
because this problem is not going away
it's only going to increase
in scale and intensity so
what are you here to do today i am here
to
be in a amateur film really what kind of
amateur film
um porn so what made you
want to come and have sex on camera i
just
needed the money and i've always been a
fan of sex
yeah i am a college student and i do
work a part-time job
yeah at a shoe store so you said you
just quit
your job i did i put in my two weeks i
was ready to be done
so this is part of my new start shortly
thereafter
jane doe nine was dismissed from her
teaching job because the faculty and
students at her school
had found an article about her on a
gossip website
when the principal at the school where
she worked sent her a copy of the
article
which contained her picture and name the
name of her school
and a caption stating she had quote no
business
working with school children close quote
i think you in the audience can guess
how antics
ensued jane do9 also learned that the
principles of human resources personnel
at her school
received anonymous emails about the
video saying she should not be working
with students her text messages with the
principal of the school showed her
distressed and desperate state of mind
she hired an attorney who was able to
negotiate a resolution
in which she would receive pay through
the end of her contract
jane do99 moved to a new city because of
the video
and found another job in her chosen
field the following year
the faculty and staff at her new school
have not yet learned about the video
but she is fearful every day that they
will
quote i'm afraid of losing my job every
day i'm fearful that
you know if i get called down to the
office and i don't know what for
i'm fearful that the exact same thing is
going to happen to me
all over again how do you feel about
this issue
you could say with great certainty it's
never going to happen to me
and you know what it won't but it's
going to happen to somebody it's going
to happen
to some of us year after year
more and more unless we come up
with something with some better way of
organizing a society
to achieve something parallel to the
separation
of church and state the separation
of money from sex
hi i'm titanic sinclair people often ask
me
titanic why do you make videos
and sometimes that
is a very difficult question to answer
if you ask me why i make youtube videos
i'd probably say because it's fun and it
helps people and it's some kind of
creative outlet but in reality a big
part of why i'm a youtuber is because i
secretly love
the money the fame and the social status
that it gives me a lot of people do not
believe in themselves
and i i think that is a very sad thing
people should believe in themselves
people should
believe in themselves because there are
so many reasons to believe in yourself